FACTIONS PLANNING

Faction 1: Agriculturists - Green VALID VIABLE
+ Immune to poor harvest DONE
- Generates 75% of the usual zeal DONE
Using techniques passed down through the generations, the Agriculturists are able to sustain their populace through famine
and indeed through feast. Some of this land's greatest delicacies are grown by these humble people, who insist that anyone
could grow what they do, winking at one another as they say it. Without the spectre of hunger on the horizon, the Agriculturists
lead the slow life, indulging in pleasures at their own pace.

Faction 2: Capitalists - Yellow VALID
+ Immune to recession DONE
- Satisfaction drops by double if below harvest boundary DONE
The sky-high towers and luxurious dwellings found throughout their cities represent the Capitalists to the fullest. They
value the clink of coins over anything else, and it has served them well so far. However, if you take a look around the
corner, things are clearly not as the seem. And as the slums fill up, there better be enough food to go around, lest
something... dangerous happens.

Faction 3: Scrutineers - Light blue VALID
+ Always finds something in investigations DONE
- Generates 75% of the usual fortune DONE
Due to a genetic trait, the Scrutineers have always had good eyesight and they use it to full effect. Nothing gets past
them, from the temples of the outlands to the streets of their cities. But, as it goes, the devil is in the details, as
the local clergy certainly aren't exempt from the all-seeing eye, with blessings being stymied as much as is humanly
possible.

Faction 4: The Godless - Cyan VALID
+ Generates 125% of the usual wealth DONE
- Blessings are 150% of the usual cost DONE
Many eons ago, a subsection of the population of these lands began to question the effectiveness of their blessings
after years of squalor and oppression. They shook free their bonds and formed their own community based around the one
thing that proved valuable to all people: currency. However, despite shunning blessings at every opportunity, The
Godless, as they became known, are wont to dabble in blessings in moments of weakness, and what's left of their clergy
makes sure to sink the boot in.

Faction 5: The Ravenous - Lime VALID VIABLE
+ Generates 125% of the usual harvest DONE
- Settlements are capped at level 5 DONE
Originating from a particular fertile part of these lands, The Ravenous have enjoyed bountiful harvests for centuries.
No matter the skill of the farmer, or the quality of the seeds, a cultivation of significant size is always created
after some months. But with such consistency, comes complacency. Those that have resided in settlements occupied by The
Ravenous, over time, grow greedy. As populations increase, and more food is available, the existing residents seek to
keep it all for themselves, as newcomers are given the unbearable choice of starving or leaving.

Faction 6: Fundamentalists - Orange VALID
+ Generates 125% of the usual zeal DONE
- Construction buyouts are disabled DONE
There's nothing quite like the clang of iron striking iron to truly ground a person in their surroundings. This is a
fact that the Fundamentalists know well, as every child of a certain age is required to serve as an apprentice in a
local forge or refinery. With such resources at their disposal, work is done quickly. And yet, suggestions that
constructions should be made quicker, and in some cases instantaneous, through the use of empire funds are met with
utter disgust by the people. For the Fundamentalists, everything must be done the right way.

Faction 7: The Orthodox - Purple VALID
+ Generates 125% of the usual fortune DONE
- Generates 75% of the usual wealth DONE
Glory to the ancient ones, and glory to the passionate. The Orthodox look to those that came before them for guidance,
and they are justly rewarded that, with enlightenment and discoveries occurring frequently. As the passionate tend to
do, however, the clatter of coin in the palm is met with a stern decline. Content they are with their existence, The
Orthodox rely on seeing what others cannot.

Faction 8: The Concentrated - Grey VALID
+ Settlements have 200% of the usual strength DONE
- Players are limited to a single settlement DONE
For the unfamiliar, visiting the settlement of The Concentrated can be overwhelming. The sheer mass of people everywhere
one looks along with the cloud-breaching towers can make one feel like they have been transported to some distant
future. It is this intimidatory factor, in combination with the colossal ramparts surrounding the megapolis that have
kept The Concentrated safe and sound for many years.

Faction 9: Frontiersmen - Peach VALID
+ New settlements begin on 75 satisfaction DONE
- Once a settlement reaches level 5, only settler units can be constructed DONE
Blink and you'll miss it; that's the story of the settlements of the Frontier. The Frontiersmen have a near obsession
with the thrill of the frontier and making something of inhospitable terrain, in situations where others could not.
Residing in a new settlement is considered to be the pinnacle of Frontier achievement, but the shine wears off quickly.
After some time, the people become restless and seek to expand further. And thus the cycle repeats.

Faction 10: Imperials - Dark blue VALID
+ Units have 150% of the usual power DONE
- Settlements have 50% of the usual strength DONE
The concept of raw power and strength has long been a core tenet of the self-dubbed Empire, with compulsory military
service a feature of their culture. This value has been drilled into the populace for such an extensive period that the
armed forces of the Imperials are a fearsome sight to behold. Those lining up opposite gaze at one another in an effort
to gauge whether it might be preferred to retreat. But this superiority leads to carelessness, as the Imperials operate
under the expectation that no one would dare attack one of their settlements for fear of retribution, and as such leave
them relatively undefended.

Faction 11: The Persistent - Red VALID
+ Units have 150% of the usual health DONE
- Units have 75% of the usual power DONE
Atop a mountain in the north of these lands, there is a people of a certain philosophical nature. Instilled in all from
birth to death is the ideal of determination, and achieving one's goals no matter the cost, in time or in life. Aptly
dubbed by others as The Persistent, these militaristic people often elect to wear others down through sieges and
defensive manoeuvres. Of course, such strategies become ineffective against the well-prepared, but this does not bother
The Persistent; they simply continue on.

Faction 12: Explorers - Pink VALID
+ Units have 150% of the usual stamina DONE
- Units have 75% of the usual health DONE
Originating from an isolated part of the globe, the Explorers were first introduced to the wider world when a lost
trader stumbled across their crude and underdeveloped settlement. Guiding the leaders of the settlement out to the
nearest other settlement, and returning to explain to the masses was significant. Once the Explorers got a taste, they
have not been able to stop. They look higher, run farther and dig deeper, at the expense of their energy levels.
Unfortunately for the Explorers, the required rest during the journey makes them easy targets for Heathens.

Faction 13: Infidels - Brown VALID
+ Are not attacked by heathens DONE
- Are attacked on sight by other empires, regardless of circumstance (likelihood of winning) DONE
Some say they were raised by Heathens, and some say that their DNA is actually closer to Heathen than human. Regardless
of their biological makeup, if you approach someone on the street of any settlement and bring up the Infidels, you will
be met with a look of disgust and the question 'you're not one of them, are you?'. Seen as sub-human, other empires
engage in combat on sight with the Infidels, no matter the disguises they apply.

Faction 14: The Nocturne - Navy VALID
+ Thrive at night (harvest/vision not reduced, player units are strengthened like heathens, also know how long until night) DONE
- Units have 50% power/health/stamina during daytime DONE
Long have The Nocturne worshipped the holy moons of this world, and through repeated attempts to modify their circadian
rhythm, the strongest among them have developed genetic abilities. These abilities go further than simply making them
nocturnal, no, they see farther and become stronger during the nighttime, and have perfected the art of predicting the
sundown. As all things are, however, there is a trade-off. When the sun is out, those of The Nocturne are weakened, and
largely huddle together waiting for their precious darkness to return.
